DOC-632 | Arangograph Integrated Monitoring (#359)
arangodb/docs-hugo: site/content/3.10/arangograph/monitoring-and-metrics.md

menuTitle: Monitoring & Metrics
weight: 40
description: >-
   ArangoGraph provides various built-in tools and integrations to help you
   monitor your deployment
archetype: default
---
The ArangoGraph Insights Platform provides integrated charts, metrics, and logs
to help you monitor your deployment. This allows you to track your deployment's
performance, resource utilization, and its overall status.

The key features include:
- **Built-in monitoring**: Get immediate access to monitoring capabilities for
  your deployments without any additional setup.

> - **Chart-based metrics representation**: Visualize the usage of the DBServers

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Chart-based metrics representation**: Visualize the usage of the DB-Servers
```

  and Coordinators over a selected timeframe.
- **Integration with Prometheus and Grafana**: Connect your metrics to Prometheus
  and Grafana for in-depth visualization and analysis.

To get started, select an existing deployment from within a project and
click **Monitoring** in the navigation. 

![ArangoGraph Monitoring tab](../../images/arangograph-monitoring-tab.png)

> ## Build-in monitoring and metrics

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Built-in monitoring and metrics
```

### In the **Servers** section

> The **Servers** section offers an overview of the DBServers, Coordinators,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **Servers** section offers an overview of the DB-Servers, Coordinators,
```

and Agents used in your deployment. It provides essential details such as each
server's ID and type, the running ArangoDB version, as well as their memory,
CPU, and disk usage.

In case you need to perform a restart on a server, you can do so by using the
**Gracefully restart this server** action button. This shuts down all services
normally, allowing ongoing operations to finish gracefully before the restart
occurs.

Additionally, you can access detailed logs via the **Logs** button. This allows
you to apply filters to obtain logs from all server types or select specific ones

> (i.e. only Coordinators or only DBServers) within a timeframe. To download the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
(i.e. only Coordinators or only DB-Servers) within a timeframe. To download the
```

logs, click the **Save** button.

![ArangoGraph Monitoring Servers](../../images/arangograph-monitoring-servers.png)

### In the **Metrics** section

The **Metrics** section displays a chart-based representation depicting the

> resource utilization of DBServers and Coordinators within a specified timeframe.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
resource utilization of DB-Servers and Coordinators within a specified timeframe.
```

> You can select one or more DBServers and choose **CPU**, **Memory**, or **Disk**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can select one or more DB-Servers and choose **CPU**, **Memory**, or **Disk**
```

to visualize their respective usage. The search box enables you to easily find
a server by its ID, particularly useful when having a large number of servers
or when needing to quickly find a particular one among many.

Similarly, you can repeat the process for Coordinators to see the **CPU** and
**Memory** usage.

![Arangograph Monitoring Metrics Chart](../../images/arangograph-monitoring-metrics-chart.png)

## Connect with Prometheus and Grafana

The ArangoGraph Insights Platform provides metrics for each deployment in a 

> [Prometheus](https://prometheus.io/) compatible format.

Reviewer: Would be better to rewrite as this is an external link for which we show an icon on the right side
```suggestion
[Prometheus](https://prometheus.io/)-compatible format.
```
